In one of the previous videos, i already
introduced the random function. The random
function allows us to generate values between the
min and the max, that is provided as parameters.
I have built a very simple example here, of
circles one pixel apart on the x-axis and on
the y-axis we generate as a random value between
0 and 400. There's another function that allows us
to generate random values with a little bit more
system behind it: the so-called "noise" function.
The "noise" function first off generates a value
between 0 and 1, different to our random function.
So if we want to achieve the same, like we did
here, we need to multiply the result times 400,
to again get from 0 to 400 with the
returned noise value. The big difference,
between noise and random is first of all,
in the beginning when our sketch is started,
there is a noise field being generated and we can
then later on pick values from this pre-generated
noise field. And this noise field, unlike the
random function, is not completely random, but
it rather provides us with smooth values between
different steps within this big noise field.
To pick a value from this noise field, we need
to provide coordinates from this noise field.
And we can provide one to three coordinates. If
you for example, simply want to draw a random
smooth curve, we provide one parameter. Let's do
this now. We simply provide x here and if i save:
Now we pick a random value at each X step here and
this looks still quite chaotic and the reason is
that we're quite far zoomed out. So if i simply
divide X by 100, so make it smaller and, thereby,
zoom into the noise field. We now see the actual
smooth noise field being generated for us here
and this noise field is really really big, so
we can get a lot of random numbers from this.
Just to demonstrate this, let's add a little
offset, to walk through our noise field.
And we simply add the offset to the X here.
Remove the noLoop and then add 0.01 to our offset.
And if i save this, now we can see: through the
offset, we are wandering through the noise field
and picking these nice smooth random values.
And as you saw, as i saved this, it's generating
new random values every time i save the sketch.
But we can also generate new random data
on the fly. For example imagine you want to change
something and you don't want to the page to be
reloaded, therefore, we can provide this noise
function with a so-called seed. And to do this,
there is the so-called noiseSeed function,
where we add our seed. And to change this,
every time we just add one and now we get a
new noise every time the draw loops is running.
This gives us a lot of different
possibilities, how to work with this.
This was the one-dimensional
smooth curve, but we can get two
up to three dimensions of noise field
data. To demonstrate this, i will simply
create a little grid so that we can get
x and y parameters. Change this to y.
And so we don't actually need to render 400 times
400 pixels we will just increase the size here.
And we will use rectangles instead of the circles.
And now we will use the noise to generate the fill
for our rectangles. So that we can actually
see the noise field and the smoothness
of the noise field. We are adding the second
coordinate in our noise field, the y parameter
and multiply it times 255, because
we want the grayscale from 0 to 255.
And if i save this now. And
maybe add a noStroke here.
We can now actually see the noise field, how
it's generated we can see that there are no
sharp edges but we actually
get this really smooth surface.